---
layout: post
title: Welcome to Football GM!
date: 2019-04-27
tags:
  - post
  - Milestone
---

Hello everyone! I am very excited to bring you Football GM. Football GM is an American football management simulator, where you are in charge of a team. You don't play the actual game of football, but you draft players, trade players, sign free agents, handle the finances, and set the lineup.

Football GM is based on my other game, [Basketball GM](https://basketball-gm.com/). I spent a lot of time on abstracting the code such that most of the code is shared between games, meaning that both games will improve together. Fixing a bug or adding a feature to one will also improve the other. It's been a challenge, but it does work. Basketball GM has secretly been based on this shared code base for months.

While there are a lot of similarities to Basketball GM, there are a lot of differences too. Football is inherently a more random sport - it's lower scoring, there are fewer games, and the playoffs are single elimination. This means it's easier to get lucky and win, but it's harder to have sustained success. Team building is also more complicated in football, since there are more players, more positions, and the positions matter a lot more - you don't have players like LeBron who can do everything. Finances are also different. Football GM operates under a hard cap like the NFL, but Basketball GM uses a soft cap like the NBA.

One of the fun things about simulation games is that all of those differences are customizable. If you enable God Mode, you can make the Football GM season last 82 games, have best-of-7 playoff series, and increase the length of games so that the number of touchdowns in a football game is more similar to the number of field goals in a basketball game.

That's just one silly example of what you can do with a sports simulation game. Really, it's up to your imagination. That's been the best part of Basketball GM for years, and I hope Football GM brings people the same kind of fun.

Football GM is a lot better than Basketball GM was when it was first released, but it's still rough around the edges in many places. I know that. I'm working on it. But I think it's good enough to be fun now.

Feedback is always appreciated. Even more so since it's new. Please [let me know what you think](/contact/).
