---
layout: post
title: 2022 annual recap and traffic stats
date: 2023-01-01
tags:
  - post
  - Milestone
---

Every year I post some traffic stats here. It's a fun tradition because the numbers keep going up. I'm sure that won't last forever, but it did for 2022!

Some nice milestones that were achieved last year:

- Over 500 million pageviews across all games, a 25% increase from last year.

- Total play time was 393 years. Since that is larger than the number of days in a year, that means that every single day, more than a year's worth of time was spent playing one of my games, which is kind of insane! Or another way to look at it is that, for the entire year, every second of every day, an average of 393 people were playing a ZenGM game.

- Although [Basketball GM](/basketball/) is still by far my most popular game, [Football GM](/football/) actually grew the fastest, with pageviews increasing 40% since last year.

In addition to record traffic at all the games, 2022 also saw the release of the new [ZenGM Baseball game](/baseball/) and [many updates to all of the ZenGM games](/changelog/). What will next year bring? Updates to the existing games, of course. But I've also been working on a new game that is pretty different from my existing games. Sadly it's still a bit too early to say more!

And as I always say, I am eternally grateful for the love and support you guys constantly show me. Thank you for helping ZenGM have yet another successful year!

2022 traffic stats:

<!--more-->

{% trafficCharts 2022 %}

{% trafficTable 2022 %}
